https://news.sfsu.edu/news/sf-state-host-public-forum-csu-chancellor-selection-committee-feb-9





The committee tasked with identifying and appointing the next chancellor of the California State University (CSU) will hold a hybrid open forum on the campus of San Francisco State University from noon to 2 p.m. Thursday, Feb. 9. San Francisco State will host the forum in the McKenna Theatre of its Creative Arts Building.

The forum, which will also be livestreamed, will provide an opportunity for members of the CSU community to participate in person or virtually to share their thoughts about the qualities and experiences needed by the next chancellor. Two other forums — one at the Glenn S. Dumke Auditorium in Long Beach and another at CSU, Bakersfield’s Doré Theatre — will be held Feb. 7 and 8.

The forums are being held by the Implementation Committee for the Selection of the Chancellor, which has been appointed to work on a national search. Jolene Koester, former president of CSU Northridge, was named interim chancellor last March. Her appointment is expected to last between 12 and 15 months.

“The CSU chancellor is an important role with significant impact on our university and across our state,” said SF State President Lynn Mahoney. “This is an excellent opportunity for the SF State community and local communities to participate in this important process."

Registration is not needed to attend any of the forums in person or to observe virtually. Members of the CSU community will be able to provide in-person comment to the committee, but those who wish to provide comments virtually must register to do so in advance.

The Chancellor Search Forum Planning Committee welcomes persons with disabilities. Sign language interpreting (ASL) and captioning will be provided in-person at McKenna Theater; captioning will also be provided via livestream. Attendees in need of on-campus mobility transport should call the Disability Programs and Resource Center at (415) 338-2472 to request a ride. If you would like additional reasonable accommodations for this event, please contact the Office of the President at (415) 338-1381 or president@sfsu.edu as soon as possible so your request may be reviewed.

The CSU is the largest system of four-year higher education in the country, with 23 campuses (including SF State). Each year, the CSU awards more than 132,000 degrees, and one in every 20 Americans holding a college degree is a graduate of the CSU.

SF State is a doctoral public university serving students from the San Francisco Bay Area, across California and around the world, with nationally acclaimed programs that span a broad range of disciplines. More than 24,000 students enroll at the University each year, and its more than 286,000 graduates have contributed to the economic, cultural and civic fabric of San Francisco and beyond.

